One of the greatest advantages the human species has is its ability to communicate their thoughts and work with others. This strength can be best seen in the human species’ strive to produce knowledge. Our production of knowledge is always done collaboratively and never as an individual. This idea may seem far fetched at first but it can easily be proven. All you need is to analyze the fringe cases and answer the question ‘can there be collaboration when a knower is alone?’ We can answer this question by analyzing its place in two opposing subjects: natural science and ethics to see how it applies. We will also look at the place of reasoning and imagination in these areas. Before we can continue, one must first define what is meant by alone as it will be core to the arguments made. In this case, when one is alone, one is not near any other contributors to the project both spatially and chronologically. If knowledge is a justified true belief, then the production of knowledge is the creation of new knowledge for a particular knower. Collaboration is the production of knowledge with another person such that both side’s ideas are incorporated. Armed with this, it is now possible to analyze this statement. The first area of knowledge from which we will analyze this question is the natural sciences. In the natural sciences, knowledge can be gained from a variety of sources. However, almost all of them can be considered a piece of collaborative work after one carefully analyzes the situation regardless of how that knowledge was gained. An example of this can be seen in physics. In physics class, we discussed how relativity, a section of physics, was developed by Einstein. We talked about how he made these discoveries mainly through thought experiments. (Sundermier, 2016) He arrived at these discovers with very little help from outside sources; using only his power of reasoning and imagination. So, from one perspective, you could say he created the knowledge completely alone and without any outside help. However, if you were to look at his papers, his development of knowledge incorporated aspects of many other people’s works. His work would not have been possible without the work of those before him. He built one of his main postulates off observations of light and how its speed never changed. Even if we exclude that, we could still say that his theories built off the theories of others. Something as simple as the formula for velocity, velocity = distance/time, or the Pythagorean theorem. (The light clock - A theoretical proof of time dilation) Also, if physicists long ago had not created theories on how light functions, Einstein would never have been able to utilise aspects of it in his process. In fact, most discoveries today would not be possible without discoveries or ideas had by scientists in the past. And moving forwards, it would also be difficult (but not necessarily impossible) for discoveries to not incorporate aspects of previous science as pre-existing science covers such a large area. Like Newton said in his famous quote “If I have seen further it is by standing on the shoulders of Giants.”, it is only through the help of those that have come before that we are able to do what we do. It is easy to see that at this point, all the work people do is built off or includes aspects of other people’s work but can this be considered collaboration? I believe so because is that not how collaboration works? You are taking their ideas and adding your own ideas to it, or you are taking their ideas and adding it to your ideas to help you solve the problem. In the process, you are advancing both ideas which is a key part of the collaboration process. As such, you could say Einstein expanded on the work of Pythagoras by using the pythagorean triangle formula as he was able to find new ways in which it is applicable. And a result, he was able to collaborate with someone that had been dead for thousands of years. An interesting counterpoint to this is if you were to look all the way back at the very first humans. Someone had to have invented the first bit of fire or the first wheel. With inventions so simple and fundamental it would be difficult for there to be “shoulders to stand on”. This could open up the possibility for knowledge to be produced without working with prior knowledge. However, it is also important to consider that although collaboration in this sense may not have been likely, collaboration in the normal sense could still have been possible. Moving away from the natural sciences, we can also analyse this argument by looking at ethics, an almost completely different branch. Since ethics is so broad, I will only look at the ethical frameworks since it is one of the main key focal points of the entire subject. A person’s ethical framework depends on what they see, feel and hear around them as they are growing up. This means your view of what is right and wrong and vary greatly depending on where you grew up. As you live by this ethical framework, others will be able to see it and this will cause them to reflect on themselves and update their own ethical framework. You might then see their new ethical framework and decide to update yours in a certain way because of it as well. This chain of self reflection can then continue on and on with everyone adding their own twists based on their own experiences and views at every step. This all go towards building a pot of shared ethical knowledge. As a result, you were able to collaborate with the many people around you to create a shared pot of knowledge without having to interact with others at all. This effect can be seen in the neo conservatism movement that became popular in the united states during the 1960’s and 1970’s. Since politics and ethics are very closely tied together as politics is another way to categorize what we believe is just, we can use it to explain this point. The neoconservatives movement was composed of people who left the anti communist left and joined the american conservative right. The originally liberal and lift-winged members soon drifted right and began incorporating many ideas from the conservatives as they began to agree more with their views. After this happens enough, the brand new conservatism movement begins to develop. (Neoconservatism, 2014) It is also important to note that through this form of collaboration, verbal communication is not necessary as ideas are transferred through an individual's actions. This reinforces the idea that we can collaborate with people long ago or in the future as direct communication is not a necessary part of collaboration. However, this argument is not perfect as there are other ways to gain ethical knowledge and change your ethical framework. As you are growing up, you will self reflect on what you have done to others and through that, you will also be able to improve your own ethical framework. For instance, you might hurt someone but you may not know it because it does not go against your ethical framework. Through the use of your imagination, you could put yourself in their shoes and realise what you are doing is wrong. Some might think of this as knowledge that can be gained completely by yourself and without the help of previous knowledge. Though it could also be thought of us simply collaborating with yourself as you are building on the previous ideas that your previous self had developed. An issue with self-collaboration is that it is like a cheat to the question as any counterclaim someone comes up with could be written off as self-collaboration. If someone were to come up with an example where knowledge is produced without collaboration, you could always fall back on self-collaboration as you would always exist. But that does not necessarily discredit it. Take a closer look at self-collaboration and you can see that it is not such a wild idea. Collaboration means building on other’s ideas and knowledge. An earlier or future version of you is going to be quite a different version of you. Because of the different experiences that you would have gone through, it would be almost another person. As such, self-collaboration would simply be building on ideas that your previous self has already created. Now the crux of this arguments relies on the idea that a future or past version of you would be different enough to be considered someone else. Although this is an interesting idea, there are still flaws. It is true that some extra experiences will be had by only one, though enough should be still the same that these things should not make a difference unless it is a major event. Through the aid of natural sciences and ethics, we were able to perform an in-depth analysis on collaboration and the production of knowledge. We were able to show that knowledge can be gained through a collaborative effort even when looking at subjects that are as polar as natural sciences and ethics. For natural sciences, you can look to those before you while for ethics, you can look to those around you. In the end, it is comforting to know that in the quest for knowledge, you are not alone and there will always be people that will collaborate with you and help.A well-run government is the single most important aspect in defining a perfect society. Governments should be able to look after their citizens and provide them with basic necessities, while still giving the population proper human rights and freedom. However, in George Orwell’s 1984, this is not the case. In the novel, the government of Oceania, called Ingsoc (English Socialism) is a government that tyrannically rules over their citizens. There have been governments similar to Ingsoc in history, such as Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia, however both have eventually failed. Governments like these, that are ruthless and authoritarian in respect to its citizens are always bound to be overthrown, unless they are able to manipulate the population or scare them into compliance. In 1984, Ingsoc are able to remain in power forever because they manipulate their citizens by using massive amounts of propaganda to direct citizens’ beliefs,  modifying the language that is used in the society, and controlling the thoughts of citizens so that they will believe untruthful information.
One of Ingsoc’s methods of controlling the civilians is the usage of propaganda, which they employ so that they can get the civilians to adopt a belief system that will be beneficial to the government. Firstly, the government uses Emmanuel Goldstein as a figurehead for the society to release their hatred towards. For example, while the Two Minutes Hate event is proceeding, Winston, the protagonist, tells the reader that “the face of Emmanuel Goldstein, the Enemy of the People” had shown up on the large telescreen (Orwell 13). Ingsoc uses the name and face of Goldstein, who may not even be real, to give the regular populace something that they can despise and blame when something goes wrong. They use Goldstein to divert the hostility away from the real group that the people should be showing hatred towards, which is the government themselves. However, the government does not only give the citizens a figurehead to despise, they also give them a figurehead to idolize. To contrast the resentment towards Goldstein, Ingsoc uses Big Brother as a figurehead for the citizens to worship. An example of this is shown at the end of the Two Minutes Hate ceremony. When Big Brother’s face appears on the telescreen, the citizens chant something that Winston describes as a “hymn to the wisdom and majesty of Big Brother” (18). In this case, the government is letting the citizens admire the character of Big Brother greatly. This then allows the government to use Big Brother as a way to enforce their policies on the citizens, such as threatening them to comply by saying that ‘Big Brother’ is watching them, which gives the citizens a good reason to obey the government, through their love of Big Brother. In reality, it is the government who is watching the citizens, to ensure that all citizens are adhering to the society and not committing crimes. Finally, the government enforces their propaganda on civilians starting when they are very young. They teach the children of society about all their beliefs and policies, and they create organizations such as the Youth League and the Junior Anti-Sex League, so that they can get children involved. An example of this can be seen in Winston’s employee Parsons’ children. When Winston is visiting the Parsons’ apartment, the children are calling Winson a “traitor” and a “thought-criminal” playfully (25). Even though Winston is actually a traitor and a thought-criminal, the children do not know that, but they still role-play like he is and the children pretend to capture him. This gives insight to the reader on how children are brought up to believe all the party’s ideologies, and since the children are developed that way, they are less likely to rebel against the government when they grow older, which benefits the party and gives them more power. Also, sometimes children turn their parents in to the Thought Police, completely betraying their family for the benefit of the government and the Party. In conclusion, the use of propaganda by Ingsoc is a very powerful method that, in turn, gives lots of power to the government and much less power to the citizens.
Another concept that Ingsoc are able to put into action in their society is the manipulation of language, or more specifically, the narrowing of the vocabulary in the English Language. The language that the Party uses, Newspeak, is simplified by the government to limit the creativity in thoughts of civilians. This ideology is shown in the text when Syme, a worker for the development of Newspeak, tells Winston that the whole purpose of Newspeak is to “narrow the range of thought” (55). By narrowing the range of thought in the population, Ingsoc can make sure that the people outside of the central government are less intelligent than in the past, and allow the smarter people to run the government, which again gives the government more control and power over its citizens. Next, the government removes certain words and phrases from the language so they can limit the amount of rebellion and crime. In this example, Syme tells Winston that by removing all words about rebellion and thoughtcrime, they will “make thoughtcrime literally impossible” (55). The government believes here that they can render thoughtcrime impossible by removing it from the basic vocabulary, as since the citizens cannot think or speak of committing crimes, they cannot commit the crimes in general. This allows for the government to rule over the citizens harshly, as they believe that they can do whatever they want to the citizens and the citizens will not be able to rebel against the government because they do not know what rebellion is. Finally, the citizens are deprived of their basic learning and knowledge of simple topics because there are no words in the language that references them. Emmanuel Goldstein’s book, THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OF OLIGARCHICAL COLLECTIVISM, tells the reader in one of its chapters that “in Newspeak there is no ‘Science’”(201). By removing any words that have to do with science, Ingsoc believes that the citizens will have no concept of science whatsoever, and by that, they won’t be smart enough to gain power in the society. This upholds Ingsoc’s general belief that if they have power over the citizens and are able to continuously manipulate them, they will be able to rule forever. In conclusion, the manipulation of the English language is used by Ingsoc in many different ways, but with one underlying motif; to remain in power over the people.
The biggest aspect of the government’s control over the citizens is the manipulation of their thoughts and memories through detailed and complex concepts. The main concept that Ingsoc uses on the citizens is the concept of doublethink, where someone believes and accepts two things that are completely contradictory to each other. Goldstein’s book shows the reader the government’s essential purpose for doublethink, which is to use “conscious deception while retaining the firmness of purpose that goes with complete honesty” (223). Doublethink is a very interesting mechanism used by the government to control their citizens, as the whole idea of doublethink is an example of doublethink itself. Ingsoc uses doublethink primarily so that they can get people to believe what they say, and while it is still possible to believe the truth, having the two contradictory beliefs is how the government can control the citizens to believe exactly what they say. In the novel, Winston is shown having conflict with the general idea of doublethink, as he is able to think for himself much more than the average person in the society. Winston understands the government’s use of doublethink, which is shown when Winston tells the reader “in the end the Party would announce that two and two made five, and you would have to believe it” (83). This quote gives an idea of what the government can be able to accomplish using doublethink, since they would be able to mould a previously true statement and make it fit to the government’s demands more. This is shown by Winston on a relatively small scale, since in the society, math is not important, but it is still clear to the reader that the scale can be elevated greatly and they would be able to use it for a much more important issue. The society of Oceania is at constant “war” with either Eastasia or Eurasia, the other two superpowers on the Earth. The government is able to change who the enemy is almost instantaneously, and the population believes it by means of brainwashing and doublethink. For example, during the all-important Hate Week, when Oceania is showing their hatred towards Eurasia, who is the ‘enemy’ of Oceania, the government suddenly announces that Oceania is at war with Eastasia, and that Oceania “had always been at war with Eastasia” (189). By the usage of doublethink, the citizens believe the government’s statement and they blame Goldstein for the fact that they had posters and propaganda that was anti-Eurasia. This example proves that the government’s use of doublethink on the general populace is very effective in getting the people to believe and accept many lies that the government tells. In conclusion, the mind control that Ingsoc uses, primarily the use of the concept of doublethink, is the most important method that the government uses to manipulate and control its citizens so that they retain full power over everyone.
To summarize, the government Ingsoc of Oceania is a government that rules the people to their demands, and they use many tactics, such as propaganda, the manipulation of language, and the use of doublethink to control people’s minds, in order to keep the citizens compliant. The reason they use these methods is not for the benefit of the people, it is only for the benefit of the government. They do this because their strict policies are not likely to be taken well by citizens, so the only way that they are able to keep the citizens compliant is to manipulate them, which is what Ingsoc does. Ingsoc sets themselves up so that they will be in power forever because they are slowly depriving their citizens of potential power by the methods of control that they use, and George Orwell highlights that in his novel.
At some point in their life, everyone fulfills a role. Whether that be in their own life or someone else’s, they will have an influence. These roles are called archetypes, a term coined by  Carl Jung in the 20th century to define the typical character that a person takes. Since then, there have been many excellent examples of archetypes in modern literature, and Anthony Doerr’s All The Light We Cannot See is no different. Doerr uses the archetypal theory in his novel to prove that bravery, kindness, and compassion will always defeat conflict. Doerr proves this through three characters in the novel; Frank Volkheimer, who displays the archetypal role of the Friendly Giant; Marie-Laure, who represents the Damsel in Distress, and finally Werner, who portrays the part of the tragic Hero throughout the novel.
Frank Volkheimer is a character in the novel that is misunderstood by a majority of the characters. He is a large and intimidating man, but Werner soon realizes that he is much more caring and gentle that he is said to be, which gives him the archetypal role of the Friendly Giant.
At Schulpforta, Volkheimer is rumoured to be a terrorizing brute, but when Werner first meets him, he sees otherwise. Werner describes Volkheimer as a man “full of contradictions” when he notices that behind all the intimidation, Volkheimer has a passion for classical music (Doerr 184). This observation by Werner distinguishes Volkheimer as his archetypal role, as he is someone who is “evil” on the surface but is instead a man with a good heart deep down. During the war, Volkheimer’s passion for music ends up saving himself and Werner. When Volkheimer and Werner are trapped underground, and Volkheimer has all but given up on escaping, his death is inevitable. However, he hears the piano music that Marie-Laure is playing into the transmitter and he remembers his old life, finding “himself leading horses through a forest at dawn”, and bravely throws a grenade to allow him and Werner to escape (Doerr 454). Volkheimer proves that his passion for classical music is powerful as it inspires him to escape so he can return to his old life. Doerr displays Volkheimer’s archetype of the Friendly Giant, as he does something heroic that saves not only himself but Werner as well, showing that he is a caring individual. Finally, Volkheimer proves that he still cares about Werner many years after Werner’s death in the war. After the war, some of Werner’s old war items are dropped off at Volkheimer’s place. He makes it his mission to deliver them to Werner’s sister Jutta, and tell Jutta his story about Werner, even telling Jutta that Werner “might have fallen in love” (Doerr 503). Volkheimer shows that even though it is many years since he has known Werner, he still respects him and cares for him greatly, and he wants Werner’s family to understand. In conclusion, even though Volkheimer is labelled by many as a reckless man with no heart, he is truly a compassionate person who grew up in a corrupt society.
Marie-Laure is a blind girl who lives in Saint-Malo during the war, and towards the end of the novel, she plays the archetypal role of the Damsel in Distress when she is trapped in her attic with a German sergeant major inside her house. Even though she knows she is likely going to die in the attic, she is still fearless about her situation. After days in the attic she runs out of food, so she decides to begin playing music into the radio transmitter, saying “come and get me” to herself, although the line is meant for the sergeant major, as she knows her death is inevitable if she does nothing (Doerr 453). Marie-Laure proves to the reader that she has the courage to face a conflict head-on, and even though she is considered to be the Damsel in Distress, she plays an integral role in saving herself as well.Furthermore, when Werner rescues Marie-Laure, she allows him to save her as she approaches him with kindness and not hostility. Werner enters the attic and Marie-Laure allows him to “take her hand and help her out” of the attic safely (Doerr 468). Marie-Laure allows herself to get rescued by a boy she does not know, and while she knows he is German, she is still kind to him. If she had reacted with hostility, it might have triggered a larger conflict, but since Marie-Laure plays the archetype of the Damsel in Distress, her priority is to be rescued, and she does not question Werner’s intentions. Finally, Marie-Laure shows her caring when she is forced to part ways with Werner. Once she has gotten to the requisitioned school, she finds the baker Madame Ruelle and “grips her hand and does not let go” (Doerr 478). This quote shows how much Marie-Laure cares about the people who are close to her, such as Madame Ruelle. She also worries about the well-being of Werner, who saved her. Doerr proves through Marie-Laure’s character that the Damsel in Distress will always have a spot in their heart for the person who rescued them. Marie-Laure shows an endless amount of care and kindness to the person who saves her, proving to the reader that it is better to approach conflict with these traits, as it will have positive results.
Finally, Doerr uses the protagonist Werner as the archetypal Tragic Hero throughout the course of the novel. Werner follows many of the steps that a hero takes along his path in the war. Many archetypal heroes begin in their regular life where they then receive their call to adventure. This call to adventure for Werner takes place when he is sent to fix a radio for a German man of high status. After Werner shows his brilliance, the man tells him that “he is smart beyond his years” and that “there are places for you”, referring to German academies that focus heavily on mechanics (Doerr 84). Even though Werner’s country Germany is being painted as the villain in this novel, Werner follows the same path that a hero must take; he has a great talent that is used to spark an adventure for him. Doerr sets up Werner as a hero by using this model, so that way, the reader will better empathize with the character. During the war, Werner performs a very heroic act by saving Marie-Laure. When Sergeant Major von Rumpel threatens Werner in Marie-Laure’s house, he thinks to himself, “all your life you wait, and when it finally comes, are you ready?” (Doerr 465). This line that Werner thinks to himself is very heroic, and Doerr uses it in the novel to show that Werner turning on his own country to save someone is a heroic act and not a treacherous one. Doerr also proves that Werner is someone who is not swayed by his allegiance to his country, but he instead is someone who acts out of his own best interest. Finally, at the end of the novel, Werner solidifies himself as not only a hero but a tragic hero as well. After rescuing Marie-Laure and being captured by the Allies, Werner goes to a hospital tent where he steps on a landmine “set there by his own army three months before” and is killed while trying to escape (Doerr 483). The death of Werner is symbolic, as the weapons of his own country are what killed him. Doerr shows the reader that by going into war, a nation does not only kill people of the enemy, but also of themselves as well, and no one wins. Werner spends the last few days of his life acting in rebellion against the Nazis, risking himself to save Marie-Laure and showing his kindness by doing so. Werner is a hero in all senses, and Doerr shows that to the reader by putting Werner in an archetypal hero’s situation throughout the novel.
Many characters find themselves in conflict throughout the novel, whether it be with themselves, with others, or with society. The archetypes that these characters portrayed in the novel cause them to react differently to these conflicts. Frank Volkheimer’s role of the Friendly Giant allows him to respond to conflict with kindness and compassion, Marie-Laure’s archetype of the Damsel in Distress means she is caring and courageous in conflict, and finally, Werner’s role of the Tragic Hero makes him react with bravery and rebellion. Anthony Doerr proves through these archetypal roles that these characteristics in a person will not cause further conflict; instead, it will ease the conflict, as such in the novel All The Light We Cannot See. If everyone were to take this lesson and apply it to their life, there would be significantly less conflict in the world.